---
layout: post
title:  "建站（二）"
subtitle: "Linux命令"
date:   "2018-9-24" 
author: "cj"
tags:
    web
    Laravel
    linux
    bash
---


# 整理一下学习Laravel过程中用到的Linux命令

## `lsb_release`

> Linux Standard Base.

我的机器上执行`lsb_release -d`将输出`Description:    Ubuntu 16.04.5 LTS`，执行`lsb_release -c -s`将输出`xenial`，可以用来判断当前是否为指定的Linux发行版。

```bash
DISTRO=$(lsb_release -c -s)
[[ ${DISTRO} -ne "xenial" ]] && { echo "仅支持 Ubuntu 16.04 系统"; exit 1; }
```

## `$?`

上一条命令的返回值。

可以用`echo $?`查看，也可以用在bash里判断上一条命令的返回值是否为指定数值。

```bash
lsb_release -d | grep 'Ubuntu' >& /dev/null
[[ $? -ne 0 ]] && { echo "仅支持 Ubuntu系统"; exit 1; }
```

## `id`

> Print real and effective user and group IDs.

常用`id -u`获取当前用户ID，并以是否为0判断是否为`root`用户。

```bash
[ $(id -u) != "0" ] && {
    echo "当前账户并非 root，请用 root 账户执行安装脚本（使用命令：sudo -H -s 切换为 root）"
}
```

## `set -e`

 > Change the value of shell attributes and positional parameters, or display the names and values of shell variables.
 > `-e`  Exit immediately if a command exits with a non-zero status.

## `DIR=$( cd "$(dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}")" ; pwd -P )`

在当前脚本中设置一个`DIR`的环境变量，代表当前脚本的文件夹路径。

> Bash maintains a number of variables including BASH_SOURCE which is an array of source file pathnames.
>
> `${}` acts as a kind of quoting for variables.
>
> `$()` acts as a kind of quoting for commands but they're run in their own context.
>
> `dirname` gives you the path portion of the provided argument.
>
> `cd` changes the current directory.
>
> `pwd` gives the current path.
>
> `&&` is a logical and but is used in this instance for its side effect of running commands one after another.
>
> In summary, that command gets the script's source file pathname, strips it to just the path portion, cds to that path, then uses pwd to return the (effectively) full path of the script. This is assigned to DIR. After all of that, the context is unwound so you end up back in the directory you started at but with an environment variable DIR containing the script's path.

## 批量、递归地给当前目录、子目录下所有sh文件增加可执行权限

`find /directory/of/interest/ -type f -iname "*.sh" -exec chmod +x {} \;`

>
>1. `-type`: File type to look for, here "file"
>2. `-iname`: Ignore case in the name
>3. `"*.sh"`: Globbing, telling the find command to search for files with ".sh" extension
>4. `-exec chmod +x {}`: This tells the find command to carry out a chmod command on each found file. Making each executable
>5. `\;`: Indicating end of command

## 修复 `apt-get update` 报错

问题：

```txt
Err:8 https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian stable InRelease
The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY 4F77679369475BAA
```

修复：

`sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys 4F77679369475BAA`

## Reference

- [summerblue/laravel-ubuntu-init](https://github.com/summerblue/laravel-ubuntu-init)
- [What does set -e mean in a bash script?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19622198/what-does-set-e-mean-in-a-bash-script)
- [DIR=“$( cd ”$( dirname “${BASH_SOURCE[0]}” )“ && pwd )” How does that work?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39340169/dir-cd-dirname-bash-source0-pwd-how-does-that-work)
- [Command to perform a recursive chmod to make all .sh files within a directory executable?](https://askubuntu.com/questions/889344/command-to-perform-a-recursive-chmod-to-make-all-sh-files-within-a-directory-ex)
- [The following signatures couldn't be verified because the public key is not available: NO_PUBKEY](https://askubuntu.com/questions/943539/the-following-signatures-couldnt-be-verified-because-the-public-key-is-not-avai)